## DEFINITIONS

- GIT: Distributed version control system. 
    - Free. 
    - Open source. 
    - Small to large ptojects.
    - Distributed - lives on more than one computer
    - Version control (1.0, 2.0, etc) tracking changes to version
        - Crude: resume.pdf, resume1.pdf, resume2.pdf, redume_FINAL.pdf
        - More sophisticated: track changes in google doc
            - Which authors made what changes in what time
            0 lacking - why change was made and if new users need to know anything else


## VOCABULARY:

- repository: directory managed by git; 
- add: tell git which files we wish to look at for the nxt commit
- commit: create a "save point" formal snapshot of a repositry.
- push: copy state of a local repositry elsewhere; for our purposes, most commonly used to send

- GIT 
    - Internally works like blockchain
    - Tracks all changes to any line of code / text in any file we are tracking
    - Permanent record with a timeline that has the ablilty to branch/- - navigate/merge parallel timelines

- WHen git is enabled, we enable on entire folder/directory. Including subfolders and all files. In specific scenrios - like passwords or other sensative files - we can tell to ignore specific files.

## SO WHAT

- Most interested in the permanent record part. Commits at good points - mess something up, can roll back.
 - Large trend in Data Science is adpoting methods, tools, and workflows that are extablished best practices in software engineering. 
- DS practitionares uning SE workflows (new trent) a lot of your competition doesn't know / isnt using GIT, but employers are - competative edge
- Tracking changes in analysis with hundreds/thousands of lines of code, much easier in git 

## NOW WHAT
   
- Formal git curriculum
- Turn regular directories into repositories
- All repositories are foldwes, but not all forders are repositories
- git runs on a computer (laptop, desktop, servers)
- Doesn't automatically back up - our responsibility to back up. (GitHub makes this easy and cheap) - 
- Codeup Git bill about $150 a month for all of codeup 
- Push (upload) sends to GitHub in the cloud. Can use github as simple backup, or edit directly on github
- Pull (download): brings most up to date github cloud back down to local (laptop) environment
- Clone Copies the entire repository from cloud to local environment

## Questions

- You cautioned us about making repositories within repositories
    - I didn't, but I did
- Cloned your notes repository into my notes folder
- Git threw a warning
- Tried to fix it by movimg your 'git_with_it' folder via finder
- Then close reading of the error message, and tried to use their command line snippet (which didn't work because the folder wasn't there anymore)

## Next steps:

- Research quick start guide on markdown language and tags
- Transfer existing, hand-written reading notes to appropriate new folder / document
- Capture highlights from handwritten course notes on here.

## More worflow

- Initial Repository setup
    - Create nre project and initialize a repository 
        - `mkdir my-new-project`
        - `cd my-new-project`
        - `git init`
    - Create repository on Github and add the remote to your project
        - https://github.com/new
        - `git remote add origin REMOTE_URL`
        - Where `REMOTE_URL` is the URL obtained from Github after creating a repo.
    - Create a README.md file with a short description of the project, and add and commit it. After creating readme:
    `git add README.md`
    `git commit -m 'Initial Commit'`
    - Push changes
    `git push origin master`

## Configuration
- Many things to tweak. https://git-scm.com/docs/git-config#_variables
-  Set email and name
    - `git config --global user.name "Your Name"`
    - `git config --global user.email you@example.com`
- Global gitignore file
    - Will tell git to ignore certain files system wide, in addition to any files found in a project-specific `.gitignore`
- Never track .DS_Store files (autogenerated by Finder whenver a directory is opened)
- The command below will create a file named `.gitignore_global` with a line in it that specifies `.DS_Store` files to be ignored
    - `echo '.DS_Store' >> ~/.`
- Now we can tell git that we should use this file to globally ignore files.
    - `git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore_global`


